Hi this is David back with Expert Village.
Next I'm going to demonstrate for you how
to fix a loose headset. You know your headsets
loose if when you have both hands on the handlebars
and you have the hands on the brakes. You
tighten the brakes and you try to move the
bike forward and backward. You can feel it
right in the headset that there's just a little
movement. So I'm going to go ahead and fix
that. This is something you need special tools
for. You can buy them online or at a bike
store. I'm using a 32mm Park HCW 5 wrench
and also a 32mm HCW 6 wrench. These are special
tools made specifically by the Park Tool Company.
Now, the headset involves two big nuts, and
they work against each other and they're tight.
That's what keeps the headset together. So,
in order to adjust this you simply put one
of the 32mm wrenches around the bottom part
of the headset and you take the other 32mm
wrench and you stick it on the top. It's real
easy once you get the hang of it and I'm going
to simply just loosen this like that. It's
a little bit tight but that's how it supposed
to be, because without a tight headset you're
going to take some tumbles. So, what I'm going
to do is I'm going to adjust this bottom nut
right here and I'm going to tighten a little
bit and what that's going to do is compress
the ball bearings that are down here and here
closer together so that there wont' be any
movement. So now that the headset is loose
I can go ahead and adjust that. Just really
gently like that, just a tine bit of a hair
Then what I'm going to do is, you can't simply
just tighten it down that would mash all the
ball bearings together, so I need to use this
bottom wrench and just hold that in place.
And then I'm going to tighten the top wrench
against the bottom wrench. And what that will
do is that will tighten them together and
the headset will be tight. And then we can
go riding. So it's really a simple operation.
There so now those two are tightened against
each other and what I can do next I can test
to see if the headset is tight as I want it
to be by simply putting my hands back on the
brakes, squeezing them together, try to move
the bike back and forth. Hey, no movement
now, this is what we like. So that's how you
go ahead and tighten a headset on one of these
bikes. Next, I'm going to demonstrate for
you how to remove a crank arm This is David
with Expert Village.